






































































































The Preaching of John the Baptist
Mt 3:1–12; Lk 3:1–9, 15–17; Jn 1:19–28
1The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. 2As it is written in the Prophets:
“Look, I am sending My messenger before Your face,
who will prepare Your way before You.”
3 “The voice of one crying in the wilderness:
‘Prepare the way of the Lord,
make His paths straight.’ ”
4John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. 5The whole region of Judea and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. 6John was clothed with camel’s hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey. 7He preached saying, “After me is coming One mightier than I, the straps of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. 8I indeed have baptized you with water, but He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”
The Baptism of Jesus
Mt 3:13–17; Lk 3:21–22
9In those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 10Coming up out of the water, He immediately saw the heavens opened and the Spirit descending on Him like a dove. 11And a voice came from heaven, saying, “You are My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.”
The Temptation of Jesus
Mt 4:1–11; Lk 4:1–13
12The Spirit immediately drove Him into the wilderness. 13And He was there in the wilderness for forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts. And the angels ministered to Him.
The Beginning of the Galilean Ministry
Mt 4:12–17; Lk 4:14–15
14After John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 15saying, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel.”
The Calling of the First Disciples
Mt 4:18–22; Lk 5:1–11
16As He walked by the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, his brother, throwing a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. 17Jesus said to them, “Come, follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men.” 18Immediately they left their nets and followed Him.
19When He had gone a little farther from there, He saw James the son of Zebedee and John, his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets. 20Immediately He called them. And they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed Him.
The Man With an Unclean Spirit
Lk 4:31–37
21They went to Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath He entered the synagogue and taught. 22They were astonished at His teaching, for He taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. 23In their synagogue there was a man with an unclean spirit. 24And he cried out, “Leave us alone! What do You have to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are, the Holy One of God.”
25Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent and come out of him!” 26When the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, it came out of him.
27They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, “What is this? What new teaching is this? With authority He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey Him.” 28Immediately His fame spread everywhere throughout the region surrounding Galilee.
The Healing of Many People
Mt 8:14–17; Lk 4:38–41
29When He came out of the synagogue with James and John, they went directly to the house of Simon and Andrew. 30The mother of Simon’s wife lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told Him of her. 31So He came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her. And she served them.
32In the evening, when the sun had set, they brought to Him all who were sick and those who were possessed with demons. 33The whole city was gathered at the door, 34and He healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons. And He did not let the demons speak, because they knew Him.
A Preaching Tour
Lk 4:42–44
35In the morning, rising up a great while before sunrise, He went out and departed to a solitary place. And there He prayed. 36Simon and those who were with Him followed Him, 37and when they found Him, they said to Him, “Everyone is searching for You.”
38He said to them, “Let us go into the nearby towns, that I may preach there also. For that is why I have come.” 39So He preached in their synagogues throughout Galilee and cast out demons.
The Cleansing of a Leper
Mt 8:1–4; Lk 5:12–16
40A leper came to Him, pleading with Him and kneeling before Him, saying, “If You are willing, You can make me clean.”
41Then Jesus, moved with compassion, extended His hand and touched him, and said to him, “I will. Be clean.” 42As soon as He had spoken, the leprosy immediately departed from him, and he was cleansed.
43He sternly warned him, and sent him away at once, 44saying, “See that you say nothing to anyone. But go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.” 45Instead he went out and began to proclaim it widely and to spread the news around, so that Jesus could no more openly enter the city, but was out in remote places. And they came to Him from every quarter.




